# Kotlin_Ktor_Demo_App
If you are looking to build scalable web services or clients on the JVM then Ktor is for you. Written in Kotlin, this is an extensible, lightweight framework that uses coroutines to provide an easy to test and easy use asynchronous programming model.  Many web applications and services are built using the Spring Framework. While Spring is incredibly powerful and useful nobody can accuse it of being lightweight because of the benefits it has such as support of immutable data and null detection, as well as having less of the bloat of Java. Bring these two together, a lightweight HTTP framework and a nice programming language and you get Ktor. First, you will explore Ktor - an open source project developed by JetBrains, the creators of Kotlin. It is heavily based on Kotlin coroutines and so supports a high degree of asynchrony. Next, you will discover how you can use Ktor to develop both REST and HTML based web sites that are secure and extensible. Finally, you will gain an understanding of how to produce complex server-based applications or standalone HTTP client applications.  Demo: Creating a New Ktor Project  So here we are inside IntelliJ IDEA. From here we can create a new Kate or project. So if I run the new project wizard Kate a. Was already selected here. We can pick the various aspects of Kato. We want to include inside this project. So we can specify the features we want to use, for example. So if we pick this static content feature and then scroll down and here we'll see that the routing future is already enabled. We leave. This is a greater project. When we leave the versions the latest 1.1 point two, then here we can slap the underlying HTTP engine we want to use. We'll pick the c i o engine on engine is the underlying HTTP server that Kato will use and you can see Nettie and Tom cut in this list. For example, we go next, we set the standard deals for the project. So in this case, com rsk dot to do go next and give the project name and a location and click on finished because we use grade URL I'll turn on the options I like to use, say okay and creates the project for me downloading everything that it needs Once we have that we can, take a look inside the project inside the source folder will find a file called application. Katie, we'll see in this file a few things we need to understand about this application. We're using the CEO engine to run the app. This is the engine underlying the HTTP application. This will handle the HTTP requests on responses for us. The application class is part of Kato and define an extension method called module On that class, it's this function the guests executed. When we run the app, we'll see how that's done. In a moment inside here we can see the routing set up. At the moment, this routing lets us go to a single path which is / from this route. We're going to respond with hello world with a content type of tax plane. So we just sent back the plane. Hello. World text. There's also a static route here which will take a look at in more detail later That tells the server where to find such items. A CSS and JavaScript. Now, if we look in the resource is folder we see there's an application Compher file. This is read by Kate or a start up time to configure the application. If I open this up, we could see a couple of things. The configuration specifies the module to run, which is com dot rsk that application, Katie dot module application. Katie is the Java version of the Cato application class. And a module is the extension function defined on that class. Got to defines the port. You will listen on, I'm gonna change this poor to 80 81 to avoid a clash with Port 80 80 on my machine, which is already in use. It also defines the port. You will listen on. I'm gonna change this poor to 80 81. Provide a clash with Port 80 80 on my machine, which is already in use to run the application. We need to create a run configuration inside IntelliJ. If we create a new application, the class is selected for us. It's the application class. Make sure to use the right module, which is main in this case. Save it on. Run this configuration of the application in the run window. We can see the application running on Port 80 81. If I go to the browser on, go to local host. 80 81. There's the application with the text. Hello World. So to recap, to create the application, we extend the application class with the module inside the module. We have some features. When we run the application, it reads the configuration to get the main module on the port. And a that point, we're good to go.
If you are looking to build scalable web services or clients on the JVM then Ktor is for you. Written in Kotlin, this is an extensible, lightweight framework that uses coroutines to provide an easy to test and easy use asynchronous programming model.

Many web applications and services are built using the Spring Framework. While Spring is incredibly powerful and useful nobody can accuse it of being lightweight because of the benefits it has such as support of immutable data and null detection, as well as having less of the bloat of Java. Bring these two together, a lightweight HTTP framework and a nice programming language and you get Ktor. First, you will explore Ktor - an open source project developed by JetBrains, the creators of Kotlin. It is heavily based on Kotlin coroutines and so supports a high degree of asynchrony. Next, you will discover how you can use Ktor to develop both REST and HTML based web sites that are secure and extensible. Finally, you will gain an understanding of how to produce complex server-based applications or standalone HTTP client applications.

Demo: Creating a New Ktor Project

So here we are inside IntelliJ IDEA. From here we can create a new Kate or project. So if I run the new project wizard Kate a. Was already selected here. We can pick the various aspects of Kato. We want to include inside this project. So we can specify the features we want to use, for example. So if we pick this static content feature and then scroll down and here we'll see that the routing future is already enabled. We leave. This is a greater project. When we leave the versions the latest 1.1 point two, then here we can slap the underlying HTTP engine we want to use. We'll pick the c i o engine on engine is the underlying HTTP server that Kato will use and you can see Nettie and Tom cut in this list. For example, we go next, we set the standard deals for the project. So in this case, com rsk dot to do go next and give the project name and a location and click on finished because we use grade URL I'll turn on the options I like to use, say okay and creates the project for me downloading everything that it needs Once we have that we can, take a look inside the project inside the source folder will find a file called application. Katie, we'll see in this file a few things we need to understand about this application. We're using the CEO engine to run the app. This is the engine underlying the HTTP application. This will handle the HTTP requests on responses for us. The application class is part of Kato and define an extension method called module On that class, it's this function the guests executed. When we run the app, we'll see how that's done. In a moment inside here we can see the routing set up. At the moment, this routing lets us go to a single path which is / from this route. We're going to respond with hello world with a content type of tax plane. So we just sent back the plane. Hello. World text. There's also a static route here which will take a look at in more detail later That tells the server where to find such items. A CSS and JavaScript. Now, if we look in the resource is folder we see there's an application Compher file. This is read by Kate or a start up time to configure the application. If I open this up, we could see a couple of things. The configuration specifies the module to run, which is com dot rsk that application, Katie dot module application. Katie is the Java version of the Cato application class. And a module is the extension function defined on that class. Got to defines the port. You will listen on, I'm gonna change this poor to 80 81 to avoid a clash with Port 80 80 on my machine, which is already in use. It also defines the port. You will listen on. I'm gonna change this poor to 80 81. Provide a clash with Port 80 80 on my machine, which is already in use to run the application. We need to create a run configuration inside IntelliJ. If we create a new application, the class is selected for us. It's the application class. Make sure to use the right module, which is main in this case. Save it on. Run this configuration of the application in the run window. We can see the application running on Port 80 81. If I go to the browser on, go to local host. 80 81. There's the application with the text. Hello World. So to recap, to create the application, we extend the application class with the module inside the module. We have some features. When we run the application, it reads the configuration to get the main module on the port. And a that point, we're good to go.

I have add all get,post,put and delete.Let me know your feedback.Tried to write very easy code for better understanding.
